Hotel Review Sentiment Analysis (515K Reviews)
**Project Context**
This project focuses on data cleaning and exploratory data analysis of 515k guest reviews on European hotels. Statistical testing and data visualization are used to identify trends in customer sentiment and behaviour. 

The analysis is built upon a [kaggle dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jiashenliu/515k-hotel-reviews-data-in-europe) compiled by Jiashen Liu, containing reviews scraped from Booking.com of 1493 luxruy hotels across Europe. 

**Objectives**
- Explore sentiment trends and patterns in written hotel reviews
- Examine relationships between sentiment and other data attributes
- Provide contextual insights over time to support future predictive sentiment modeling

**Methodology**
- Cleaned and preprocessed data by handling duplicates, missing values, and unwanted columns. Standardized data types and review text
- Utilizing VADER sentiment analysis to convert text reviews into numerical sentiment scores. 
- Conducture exploratory analysis using visualizations and statistical methods, includings:
1. Pearson and Spearman correlations
2. Violin plots, bar charts, and stacked bar charts
3. Hypothesis testing to assess statistical significance
- Time based analysis using rolling 90 day average, seasonal analysis with heatmap and line charts for visual representation.

**Conclusion**
Dataset displays imbalanced target variable classes and disproportion in records counts by year due to time scope of dataset.

Results:
- Hotel ratings don't typically affect reviewers' behaviour
- Couples and leisure trips tend to yield better sentiments overall
- Guests are usually more satisfied at the beginning of the week, further studies could be done on potential scenarios such as, lower customer-customer interaction on week days compared to weekends that could affect customer satisfaction at time of review.
- Sentiments are best during Q1 and Q2 and summer months

Limitations:
- Discrepancy between correlation tests & visual representation and statistical tests highlighting difference between statistical significance and practical significance
- Ceiling effect in review scores with means fluctuating around 8/10 acting as a biased for positivity class generated by VADER